This is a work-in-progress English translation of Hermann Hankel's 1867
<cite>Vorlesungen Ã¼ber die complexen Zahlen und ihre Functionen</cite>
("Lectures on complex numbers and their functions").
The original text, with reasonably good OCR, is available from the
[Internet Archive](https://archive.org/details/vorlesungenberd01hankgoog/).

This work is not very well known today, even among philosophers and
historians of mathematics, but it was an important work in its time.
For example, in Frege's <cite>Grundlagen der Arithmetik</cite>
("Foundations of arithmetic"), which is *very* widely read among
anglophone philosophers today, Hankel is Frege's most frequently cited
interlocutor. Frege scholarship could learn a lot from Hankel, but
because Hankel's text is difficult and hasn't been translated, it
hasn't received much attention.

By making this translation available, I am hoping to make the work
more accessible to an English-speaking audience. I am also using the
project to experiment with the possibilities of publishing a
translation in a "hypertext-first" format.

At the moment, it is not my goal to translate the whole book, which is
mostly just a mathematics textbook that is by now quite outdated. Its
interest lies mainly in its historical importance and in the
philosophical approach to the foundations of mathematics which Hankel
sets out in the initial chapters of the book. The translation is
focused on these initial chapters.

I update the translation as I find new passages of interest and as I
learn more about the text and its history. Comments, corrections, and
contributions of new translations are welcome. Open an issue, make a
pull request, or simply send me an email (<code>rwl</code> followed by
[the usual commercial accounting symbol](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/At_sign) and
<code>[recursewithless.net](https://recursewithless.net "the domain of my website")</code>).
